docs(enterprise): Add IdP delegation documentation [PLAT-4827] (#1416)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-enterprise_docs/orgs-and-teams/teams.md

### Before you begin

- An active OIDC SSO connection on your organization. See [Authentication](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/overview).
- A populated IdP group catalog. See [Manage your IdP group catalog](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/group-catalog/overview).
- An IdP that emits the `groups` claim in OIDC tokens. See [IdP claim mapping](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/claim-mapping).
:::info[**Prerequisites**]{#prerequisites}
You will need the following to get started:

- An active OIDC SSO connection on your organization. See [Authentication](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/overview).
- A populated IdP group catalog. See [Manage your IdP group catalog](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/group-catalog/overview).
- An IdP that emits the `groups` claim in OIDC tokens. See [IdP claim mapping](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/claim-mapping).
- Organization owner access to your Seqera organization.
:::

### Delegate the team

> 1. From the organization's landing page, open the **Teams** tab.

Author: ```suggestion
1. From the organization's landing page, open **Settings > Group mapping**.
```

2. Select the team you want to delegate, then **Edit**.

> 3. In the **IdP Group** field, select a group from the dropdown. The dropdown is populated from your organization's IdP group catalog.

Author: ```suggestion
3. In the **IdP groups** field, select a group from the dropdown. The dropdown is populated from your organization's IdP group catalog.
```

---
title: "Teams"
description: "Create and manage teams in a Seqera Platform Enterprise organization, including IdP-delegated teams."
date: "2026-05-12"
tags: [teams, organizations, administration, sso, idp-delegation, enterprise]
---

**Teams** allow organization owners to group members and collaborators together into a single unit and to manage them as a whole. Apply a workspace role to a team and every member inherits that access. See [User roles](./roles) for the available roles.

:::note

> If your organization has [single sign-on (SSO)](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/overview) configured, the team form includes an **IdP Group** field. Leave it empty to manage team membership manually, or select an IdP group to delegate membership to your identity provider. See [Delegate a Team to an IdP group](#delegate-a-team-to-an-idp-group).

Reviewer: 'If your organization has [single sign-on (SSO)](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/overview) configured and idp group claims mapping enabled...'

Also I don't believe the Add modal or edit form does have the group field yet. We delayed this for a follow up release @joaquimgamero FYI

Delegation can only be done through the IdP group manage page.

Reviewer: What will show on the team for atm is an 'icon' (I always foget what we call this) showing the team is delegated.

<img width="802" height="372" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/57b46293-c21a-492f-ac73-c730de5f8181" />

Reviewer 2: We can call this a badge @swingingsimian

> If your organization has [single sign-on (SSO)](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/overview) configured, the team form includes an **IdP Group** field. Leave it empty to manage team membership manually, or select an IdP group to delegate membership to your identity provider. See [Delegate a Team to an IdP group](#delegate-a-team-to-an-idp-group).

Author: ```suggestion
If your organization has [single sign-on (SSO)](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/overview) and IdP group claims mapping enabled, the team form includes an **IdP Group** field. Leave it empty to manage team membership manually, or select an IdP group to delegate membership to your identity provider. See [Delegate a team to an IdP group](#delegate-a-team-to-an-idp-group).
```

> If your organization has [single sign-on (SSO)](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/overview) and IdP group claims mapping enabled, the team form includes an **IdP Group** field. Leave it empty to manage team membership manually, or select an IdP group to delegate membership to your identity provider. See [Delegate a team to an IdP group](#delegate-a-team-to-an-idp-group).

Reviewer 3: The team form does not include an IdP field at the moment, the group <-> team linking can only be done from the Org settings > Group mapping panel

```suggestion
If your organization has [single sign-on (SSO)](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/overview) and IdP group claims mapping enabled, the team can be delegated to **IdP Groups**. See [Delegate a team to an IdP group](#delegate-a-team-to-an-idp-group).
```

:::

## Create a team

To create a new team:

1. Go to the **Teams** tab in the sidebar of the organization landing page.
2. Select **Add Team**.
3. Enter the **Name** of the team.
4. Optionally, add the **Description** and the team's **Avatar**.
5. Select **Add**.

To add members to the team, select **Edit**, then **Members of team**, then **Add member**. Enter the name or email address of an organization member or collaborator.

## Edit a team

1. Open the **Teams** tab and select the team you want to edit.
2. Select **Edit**.
3. Update the **Name**, **Description**, **Avatar**, or membership.
4. Select **Update** to save.

> The same surface is used to delete a team. The **Delete** action is disabled for delegated teams; clear the **IdP Group** field first.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The same surface is used to delete a team. The **Delete** action is disabled for delegated teams. Clear the **IdP Group** field first.
```

## Delegate a Team to an IdP group

> Organizations with an active SSO connection can delegate team membership to an identity provider (IdP) group. Once a team is delegated, the IdP becomes the sole authority for who belongs — Seqera evaluates each user's IdP claims at every SSO login and adjusts membership automatically.

Reviewer 2: See comment above, the SSO connection is not required, it's activating OIDC auth that's required instead. cc. @JaimeSeqLabs

Reviewer: Just to clarify here, as OIDC is SSO. I think what @joaquimgamero is getting at is... not a runtime managed SSO connection within the UI (which is restricted to CloudPro), but the env/config managed OIDC SSO connection.

> Organizations with an active SSO connection can delegate team membership to an identity provider (IdP) group. Once a team is delegated, the IdP becomes the sole authority for who belongs — Seqera evaluates each user's IdP claims at every SSO login and adjusts membership automatically.

Author: ```suggestion
Organizations with an active OIDC SSO connection can delegate team membership to an identity provider (IdP) group. Once a team is delegated, the IdP becomes the sole authority for who belongs. Platform evaluates each user's IdP claims at every login and adjusts membership automatically.
```

For the runtime model behind delegation, see [IdP delegation overview](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/overview).

### Before you begin

> - An active SSO connection on your organization. See [Authentication](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/overview).

Reviewer 2: Same as above, the requirement is to activate OIDC auth. cc. @JaimeSeqLabs

- A populated IdP group catalog. See [Manage your IdP group catalog](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/group-catalog/overview).

> - An IdP that emits the `groups` claim in OIDC or SAML tokens. See [IdP claim mapping](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/claim-mapping).

Reviewer: SAML is not supported yet

> - An IdP that emits the `groups` claim in OIDC or SAML tokens. See [IdP claim mapping](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/claim-mapping).

Author: ```suggestion
- An IdP that emits the `groups` claim in OIDC tokens. See [IdP claim mapping](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/claim-mapping).
```

> - Organization owner access to your Seqera organization.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:::info[**Prerequisites**]{#prerequisites}
You will need the following to get started:

- An active OIDC SSO connection on your organization. See [Authentication](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/overview).
- A populated IdP group catalog. See [Manage your IdP group catalog](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/group-catalog/overview).
- An IdP that emits the `groups` claim in OIDC tokens. See [IdP claim mapping](../enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/claim-mapping).
- Organization owner access to your Seqera organization.
:::
```

### Delegate the Team

1. From the organization's landing page, open the **Teams** tab.
2. Select the team you want to delegate, then **Edit**.
3. In the **IdP Group** field, select a group from the dropdown. The dropdown is populated from your organization's IdP group catalog.

> 4. Select **Update** to save.

Reviewer 2: This can only be done via Group Mapping page, not in the team edit page.

Author: @joaquimgamero do we have screenshots or a recording of this? I want to double-check I have all the UI elements/steps documented properly.

Reviewer 2: This is why I meant @justinegeffen - this is the only place where you can assign a team to an IdP group

<img width="1483" height="755" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-21 at 09 03 41" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b7040e76-e24d-410e-96fb-e879e4025b07" />

The same IdP group can be assigned to more than one team. Each team can reference exactly one IdP group.

### What changes when a Team is delegated

After you delegate a team:

- Membership becomes immutable in the Platform UI. The **Add member** and **Remove member** controls are hidden.
- The team cannot be deleted. To delete a delegated team, clear the **IdP Group** field first.
- The team's name, description, avatar, and **IdP Group** value remain editable.
- Existing manual workspace and role assignments on the team are preserved.

> - The team is marked **Managed in IdP** in the teams list.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The team is marked **IdP Delegated** in the teams list.
```
We should review this across the docs for consistency
